# [README checklist](https://github.com/ddbeck/readme_checklist)

by [Daniel D. Beck](https://twitter.com/ddbeck)

[checklist.md](/checklist.md) is a checklist to help you write a README file
that helps readers feel confident about your project. If you write a README by
following the checklist, then your readers may more easily identify, evaluate,
use, and engage with your project. Unlike README templates, this checklist
helps you write the most important things first, not only what appears first in
the file. You can use the checklist for both closed- and open-source projects.

You are free to copy, modify, and distribute this checklist, even for
commercial purposes, without asking for permission. Please adapt this
checklist for your own use. See
*[Public domain dedication](#public-domain-dedication)* for details.


## How to use the checklist

View the latest version of the checklist at:

checklist.md

This checklist a *READ-DO* checklist. If you're starting a new README file,
follow the checklist like a recipe, reading each step and completing it, in
order. Alternatively, if you've already started a README file, you may find it
useful to treat the checklist as a *DO-CONFIRM* checklist, confirming that your
README matches the elements of the checklist after you've finished writing.

With a few exceptions, the checklist is agnostic about what order things appear
in your README or even what kind of project you're documenting. Your README may
cover other topics not covered by this checklist; the checklist covers only
those topics I found to be essential for README files.


## Contributing to this checklist

If you have suggestions for improving the checklist, please [open an issue or
pull request on GitHub](https://github.com/ddbeck/readme-checklist/).


## Public domain dedication

[This work is dedicated to the public domain (CC0
1.0)](http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/). To the extent
possible under law, Daniel D. Beck has waived all copyright and related or
neighboring rights to the README checklist. See the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for
all the legalese.
